@c This is part of the RefTeX manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See file reftex.texi for copying conditions.
@ifset rawfile
@include macros.texi
@end ifset
Here is a list of recent changes to @RefTeX{}.

@noindent @b{Version 4.34}

@itemize @bullet
@item
The creation of @BibTeX{} files with @code{reftex-create-bibtex-file}
now recognizes cross-referenced entries and @samp{@@string} definitions.
@item
@RefTeX{} now provides better options for defining and selecting special
referencing macros like @samp{\vref} from the @samp{varioref} package,
@samp{\fref} from the @samp{fancyref} package or @samp{\autoref} from
the @samp{hyperref} package as well as page-referencing macros like
@samp{\pageref}.
@ifset rawfile
See section Reference Styles in the manual
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
@xref{Reference Styles},
@end ifclear
for details.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.33}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Update to GPLv3.
@item
Parse files are created in a way that does not interfere with recentf
mode.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.32}

@itemize @bullet
@item
First release by @AUCTeX{} project.
@item
Installation routine rewritten after structure of source package
changed.
@item
Activation of @RefTeX{} changed, so make sure you read the installation
instructions and remove obsolete cruft related to @RefTeX{} from your
init file.
@item
Fixed bug where point would end up in the wrong buffer when jumping
between several @LaTeX{} and phrases buffers.
@item
Fixed bug where @BibTeX{} keys with hyphens were parsed incorrectly.
@item
Some performance improvements.
@item
The separator used between multiple citations in a \cite macro can now
be changed by customizing the variable @code{reftex-cite-key-separator}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.28}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for the Jurabib package.
@item
Improvements when selecting several items in a selection buffer.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.27}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for jurabib in `reftex-cite-format-builtin'.
@item
Bug fixes.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.26}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for global incremental search.
@item
Some improvements for XEmacs compatibility.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.25}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug with @samp{%F} in a label prefix.  Added new escapes
@samp{%m} and @samp{%M} for mater file name and master directory.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.24}

@itemize @bullet
@item 
Inserting citation commands now prompts for optional arguments
when called with a prefix argument.  Related new options are
@code{reftex-cite-prompt-optional-args} and
@code{reftex-cite-cleanup-optional-args}. 
@item
New option @code{reftex-trust-label-prefix}.  Configure this variable
if you'd like RefTeX to base its classification of labels on prefixes.
This can speed-up document parsing, but may in some cases reduce the
quality of the context used by RefTeX to describe a label.
@item
Fixed bug in @code{reftex-create-bibtex-file} when @code{reftex-comment-citations}
is non-nil.
@item
Fixed bugs in indexing: Case-sensitive search, quotes before and/or
after words.  Disabled indexing in comment lines.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.22}

@itemize @bullet
@item 
New command @code{reftex-create-bibtex-file} to create a new database
with all entries referenced in the current document.
@item
New keys @kbd{e} and @kbd{E} allow to produce a BibTeX database file
from entries marked in a citation selection buffer.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.21}

@itemize @bullet
@item 
Renaming labels from the toc buffer with key @kbd{M-%}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.20}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Structure editing capabilities.  The command keys @kbd{<} and @kbd{>} in
the TOC buffer promote/demote the section at point or all sections in
the current region.
@item
New option @code{reftex-toc-split-windows-fraction} to set the size of
the window used by the TOC.  This makes the old variable
@code{reftex-toc-split-windows-horizontally-fraction} obsolete.
@item
A dedicated frame can show the TOC with the current section
always automatically highlighted.  The frame is created and
deleted from the toc buffer with the @kbd{d} key.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.19}

@itemize @bullet
@item
New command `reftex-toc-recenter' (@kbd{C-c -}) which shows the current
section in the TOC buffer without selecting the TOC window.
@item
Recentering happens automatically in idle time when the option
@code{reftex-auto-recenter-toc} is turned on.
@item
Fixed several bugs related to automatic cursor positioning in the TOC
buffer.
@item
The highlight in the TOC buffer stays when the focus moves to a
different window.
@item
New command `reftex-goto-label'.
@item
Part numbers are no longer included in chapter numbers, and a new
part does not reset the chapter counter.  See new option
@code{reftex-part-resets-chapter}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.18}

@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{reftex-citation} uses the word before the cursor as a default
search string.
@item
Simplified several regular expressions for speed.
@item
Better support for chapterbib.  Different chapters can now use BibTeX or
an explicit @code{thebibliography} environment.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.17}

@itemize @bullet
@item
The toc window can be split off horizontally.  See new options
@code{reftex-toc-split-windows-horizontally},
@code{reftex-toc-split-windows-horizontally-fraction}.
@item
It is possible to specify a function which verifies an index match
during global indexing.  See new option @code{reftex-index-verify-function}.
@item
The macros which input a file in LaTeX (like \input, \include) can
be configured.  See new option @code{reftex-include-file-commands}.
@item
The macros which specify the bibliography file (like \bibliography) can
be configured.  See new option @code{reftex-bibliography-commands}.
@item
The regular expression used to search for the \bibliography macro has
been relaxed to allow for @samp{@{\bibliography@{...@}@}} needed by
chapterbib.
@item
Small bug fixes.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.15}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug with parsing of BibTeX files, when fields contain quotes or
unmatched parenthesis.
@item
Small bug fixes.
@item
Improved interaction with Emacs LaTeX mode.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.14}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Ensure write access to all files before doing global label replace.
@item
Fixed bug which would parse @samp{\partial} as @samp{\part}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.12}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for @file{bibentry} citation style.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.11}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug which would parse @samp{\Section} just like @samp{\section}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.10}

@itemize @bullet
@item
Renamed @file{reftex-vcr.el} to @file{reftex-dcr.el} because of conflict
with @file{reftex-vars.el} on DOS machines.
@item
New options @code{reftex-parse-file-extension} and
@code{reftex-index-phrase-file-extension}.
@end itemize

@noindent [.....]
@ignore
@noindent @b{Version 4.09}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New option @code{reftex-toc-max-level} to limit the depth of the toc.
New key binding @kbd{t} in the @file{*toc*} buffer to change this
setting.
@item
RefTeX maintains an @file{Index Phrases} file in which phrases can be
collected.  When the document is ready, RefTeX can search all
these phrases and assist indexing all matches.
@item
The variables @code{reftex-index-macros} and
@code{reftex-index-default-macro} have changed their syntax slightly.
The @var{repeat} parameter has move from the latter to the former.
Also calls to @code{reftex-add-index-macros} from AUCTeX style files
need to be adapted.
@item
The variable @code{reftex-section-levels} no longer contains the
default stuff which has been moved to a constant.
@item
Environments like theorems can be placed into the TOC by putting
entries for @samp{"begin@{theorem@}"} in
@code{reftex-section-levels}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.07}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New option @code{reftex-toc-max-level} to limit the depth of the toc.
The @kbd{t} key in the *toc* and *RefTeX Select* buffers also changes
this variable.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.06}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{reftex-section-levels} can contain a function to compute the level
of a sectioning command.
@item
Multiple @code{thebibliography} environments recognized.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.04}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New option @code{reftex-index-default-tag} implements a default for queries.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.02}
@itemize @bullet
@item
macros ending in @samp{refrange} are considered to contain references.
@item
Index entries made with @code{reftex-index-selection-or-word} in TeX
math mode automatically get enclosing @samp{$} to preserve math mode.  See
new option @code{reftex-index-math-format}.  Requires AUCTeX.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.01}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New command @code{reftex-index-globally} to index a word in many
places in the document.  Also available from the index buffer with
@kbd{&}.
@item
The first item in a @code{reftex-label-alist} entry may now also be a parser
function to do non-standard parsing.
@item
@code{reftex-auto-view-crossref} no longer interferes with
@code{pop-up-frames} (patch from Stefan Monnier).
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 4.00}
@itemize @bullet
@item
RefTeX has been split into several smaller files which are autoloaded on
demand.
@item
Index support, along with many new options.
@item
The selection of keys for @code{\ref} and @code{\cite} now allows to
select multiple items by marking entries with the @kbd{m} key.
@item
Fancyref support.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.43}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Viewing cross-references generalized.  Now works on @code{\label},
@code{\ref}, @code{\cite}, @code{\bibitem}, @code{\index}, variations of
these, and from BibTeX buffers.
@item
New option @code{reftex-view-crossref-extra}.
@item
Support for the additional sectioning commands @code{\addchap} and
@code{\addsec} which are defined in the LaTeX KOMA-Script classes.
@item
Files in @code{reftex-default-bibliography} will be searched along
@code{BIBINPUTS} path.
@item
Reading a parse file now checks consistency.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.42}
@itemize @bullet
@item
File search further refined.  New option @code{reftex-file-extensions}.
@item
@file{*toc*} buffer can show the file boundaries of a multifile
document, all labels and associated context.  New keys @kbd{i}, @kbd{l},
and @kbd{c}.  New options @code{reftex-toc-include-labels},
@code{reftex-toc-include-context},
@code{reftex-toc-include-file-boundaries}. 
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.41}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New options @code{reftex-texpath-environment-variables},
@code{reftex-use-external-file-finders},
@code{reftex-external-file-finders},
@code{reftex-search-unrecursed-path-first}.
@item
@emph{kpathsearch} support.  See new options and
@code{reftex-bibpath-environment-variables}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.38}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{reftex-view-crossref} no longer moves to find a macro.  Point has
to be on the macro argument.
@item
Bug fix for XEmacs selection process.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.36}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New value @code{window} for option @code{reftex-auto-view-crossref}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.35}
@itemize @bullet
@item
ISO 8859 Latin-1 chars are converted to ASCII to derive better labels.
This takes back the related changes in 3.34 for safety reasons.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.34}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Additional flag in @code{reftex-derive-label-parameters} do make only
lowercase labels (default @code{t}).
@item
All @file{.rel} files have a final newline to avoid queries.
@item
Single byte representations of accented European letters (ISO-8859-1)
are now valid in labels.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.33}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Multiple selection buffers are now hidden buffers (they start with a
SPACE).
@item
Fixed bug with file search when TEXINPUTS environment variable is empty.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.30}
@itemize @bullet
@item
In @code{reftex-citation}, the regular expression used to scan BibTeX
files can be specified using completion on known citation keys.
@item
New keys @kbd{a} and @kbd{A} in BibTeX selection process to cite @emph{all}
entries.
@item
New command @code{reftex-renumber-simple-labels} to renumber simple
labels like @samp{eq:13} sequentially through a document.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.28}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Auto view crossref for XEmacs uses @code{post-command-hook} to restart the
timer, since itimer restart is not reliable.
@item
Option @code{reftex-bibfile-ignore-list} renamed to @code{-regexps}.
@item
Expansion of recursive tex and bib path rewritten.
@item
Fixed problem where @b{Ref@TeX{}} did not scan unsaved buffers.
@item
Fixed bug with section numbering after *-red sections.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.27}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Macros can define @emph{neutral} labels, just like @code{\label}
itself.
@item
New option @code{reftex-allow-detached-macro-args}, default @code{nil}!
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.26}
@itemize @bullet
@item
[X]Emacs 19 no longer supported.  Use 3.22 for Emacs 19.
@item
New hooks @code{reftex-translate-to-ascii-function},
@code{reftex-string-to-label-function}.
@item
Made sure automatic crossref display will not visit/scan files.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.25}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Echoing of citation info caches the info for displayed entries.
New option @code{reftex-cache-cite-echo}.
@item
@kbd{M-x reftex-reset-mode} now also removes the file with parsing
info.
@item
Default of @code{reftex-revisit-to-follow} changed to nil.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.24}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New option @code{reftex-revisit-to-echo}.
@item
Interface with X-Symbol (>=2.6) is now complete and stable.
@item
Adapted to new outline, which uses overlays.
@item
File names in @code{\bibliography} may now have the @code{.bib}
extension.
@item
Fixed Bug with parsing "single file" from master file buffer.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.23}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Parse files @file{MASTER.rel} made compatible between Emacs and XEmacs.
@item
@code{kill-emacs-hook} and @code{kill-buffer-hook} now write the parse
file.
@item
The cursor inside a @code{\ref} or @code{\cite} macro can now trigger
automatic display of crossref information in the echo area.  See
variable @code{reftex-auto-view-crossref}.
@item
AUCTeX interface updates:
@itemize @minus
@item
AUCTeX 9.9c and later notifies @b{Ref@TeX{}} about new sections.
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} notifies AUCTeX about new labels.
@item
@code{TeX-arg-ref} no longer used (introduction was unnecessary).
@item
@code{reftex-arg-label} and @code{reftex-arg-cite} fixed up.
@item
Settings added to @b{Ref@TeX{}} via style files remain local.
@end itemize
@item
Fixed bug with @code{reftex-citation} in non-latex buffers.
@item
Fixed bug with syntax table and context refontification.
@item
Safety-net for name change of @code{font-lock-reference-face}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.22}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug with empty context strings.
@item
@code{reftex-mouse-view-crossref} is now bound by default at
@kbd{S-mouse-2}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.21}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New options for all faces used by @b{Ref@TeX{}}. They're in the
customization group @code{reftex-fontification-configurations}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.19}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug with AUCTeX @code{TeX-master}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.18}
@itemize @bullet
@item
The selection now uses a recursive edit, much like minibuffer input.
This removes all restrictions during selection.  E.g. you can now
switch buffers at will, use the mouse etc.
@item
New option @code{reftex-highlight-selection}.
@item
@kbd{mouse-2} can be used to select in selection and @file{*toc*}
buffers.
@item
Fixed some problems regarding the interaction with VIPER mode.
@item
Follow-mode is now only used after point motion.
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} now finally does not fontify temporary files anymore.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.17}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Additional bindings in selection and @file{*toc*} buffers.  @kbd{g}
redefined.
@item
New command @code{reftex-save-all-document-buffers}.
@item
Magic word matching made more intelligent.
@item
Selection process can switch to completion (with @key{TAB}).
@item
@code{\appendix} is now recognized and influences section numbering.
@item
File commentary shortened considerably (use Info documentation).
@item
New option @code{reftex-no-include-regexps} to skip some include files.
@item
New option @code{reftex-revisit-to-follow}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.16}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New hooks @code{reftex-format-label-function},
@code{reftex-format-ref-function}, @code{reftex-format-cite-function}.
@item
TeXInfo documentation completed.
@item
Some restrictions in Label inserting and referencing removed.
@item
New variable @code{reftex-default-bibliography}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.14}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Selection buffers can be kept between selections: this is faster.
See new variable @code{reftex-use-multiple-selection-buffers}.
@item
Prefix interpretation of reftex-view-crossref changed.
@item
Support for the @code{varioref} package (@kbd{v} key in selection
buffer).
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.12}
@itemize @bullet
@item
There are 3 new keymaps for customization: @code{reftex-toc-map},
@code{reftex-select-label-map}, @code{reftex-select-bib-map}.
@item
Refontification uses more standard font-lock stuff.
@item
When no BibTeX database files are specified, citations can also use
@code{\bibitem} entries from a @code{thebibliography} environment.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.11}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed bug which led to naked label in (e.g.) footnotes.
@item
Added scroll-other-window functions to RefTeX-Select.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.10}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed a bug which made reftex 3.07 fail on [X]Emacs version 19.
@item
Removed unimportant code which caused OS/2 Emacs to crash.
@item
All customization variables now accessible from menu.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.07}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{Ref} menu improved.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.05}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Compatibility code now first checks for XEmacs feature.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.04}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Fixed BUG in the @emph{xr} support.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.03}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for the LaTeX package @code{xr}, for inter-document
references.
@item
A few (minor) Mule-related changes.
@item
Fixed bug which could cause @emph{huge} @file{.rel} files.
@item
Search for input and @file{.bib} files with recursive path definitions.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 3.00}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} should work better for very large projects:
@itemize @bullet
@item
The new parser works without creating a master buffer.
@item
Rescanning can be limited to a part of a multifile document.
@item
Information from the parser can be stored in a file.
@end itemize
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} can deal with macros having a naked label as an argument.
@item
Macros may have white space and newlines between arguments.
@item
Multiple identical section headings no longer confuse
@code{reftex-toc}.
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} should work correctly in combination with buffer-altering
packages like outline, folding, x-symbol, iso-cvt, isotex, etc.
@item
All labeled environments discussed in @emph{The LaTeX Companion} by
Goossens, Mittelbach & Samarin, Addison-Wesley 1994) are part of
@b{Ref@TeX{}}'s defaults.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.17}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Label prefix expands % escapes with current file name and other stuff.
@item
Citation format now with % escapes.  This is not backward
compatible!
@item
TEXINPUTS variable recognized when looking for input files.
@item
Context can be the nth argument of a macro.
@item
Searching in the select buffer is now possible (@kbd{C-s} and
@kbd{C-r}).
@item
Display and derive-label can use two different context methods.
@item
AMSmath @code{xalignat} and @code{xxalignat} added.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.14}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Variable @code{reftex-plug-into-AUCTeX} simplifies cooperation with
AUCTeX.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.11}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Submitted for inclusion to Emacs and XEmacs.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.07}
@itemize @bullet
@item
New functions @code{reftex-search-document},
@code{reftex-query-replace-document}.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.05}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for @file{custom.el}.
@item
New function @code{reftex-grep-document} (thanks to Stephen Eglen).
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.03}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{figure*}, @code{table*}, @code{sidewaysfigure/table} added to
default environments.
@item
@code{reftex-bibfile-ignore-list} introduced (thanks to Rory Molinari).
@item
New functions @code{reftex-arg-label}, @code{reftex-arg-ref},
@code{reftex-arg-cite}.
@item
Emacs/XEmacs compatibility reworked.  XEmacs 19.15 now is
required.
@item
@code{reftex-add-to-label-alist} (to be called from AUCTeX style
files).
@item
Finding context with a hook function.
@item
Sorting BibTeX entries (new variable:
@code{reftex-sort-bibtex-matches}).
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 2.00}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Labels can be derived from context (default for sections).
@item
Configuration of label insertion and label referencing revised.
@item
Crossref fields in BibTeX database entries.
@item
@code{reftex-toc} introduced (thanks to Stephen Eglen).
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 1.09}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Support for @code{tex-main-file}, an analogue for
@code{TeX-master}.
@item
MS-DOS support.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 1.07}
@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{Ref@TeX{}} gets its own menu.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 1.05}
@itemize @bullet
@item
XEmacs port.
@end itemize

@noindent @b{Version 1.04}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Macros as wrappers, AMSTeX support, delayed context parsing for
new labels.
@end itemize
@end ignore

@noindent @b{Version 1.00}

@itemize @bullet
@item
released on 7 Jan 1997.
@end itemize


@c Local Variables: 
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: "reftex"
@c End: 
